in light of the Prince Andrew
controversy should we reevaluate the
role of the royal family I don't need
any explaining from me what's been
happening you have been asleep for the
last few days to have missed this story
checker I don't think we have to
reevaluate the the role of the royal
family as a whole but I think the way
that he is behaved has been utterly
disgraceful the fact that he seemed
completely incapable of recognizing the
situation of the victims and survivors
of the dreadful activities of the of the
billionaire concerned the fact that he
didn't seem willing to make himself
available to go and help with the cases
in the u.s. that have been bought the
civil actions and I don't know if
they're still prosecution's ongoing the
fact that he went to go and stay with
this gentleman
after he had been convicted of
pedophilia
it's just unfathomable to me and I don't
I don't think I'm not a fan of the
hereditary principle but I don't think
our country wants another elected
politician being its head of state but
my gosh he is let the royal family down
and he's let the Queen down and he's met
the institution down and in the midst of
all this political chaos people do kind
of I think look to the royal family to
give some degree of stability a bit of
an anchor and I think he's totally
undermined it and that's why he's done
the right thing and stepping back from
public life if he was a politician he
would have had to resign ages ago what's
your view on this illness since you
asked the question I think that I agree
it's not necessarily about the entire
royal family I think maybe the lesser
Royals I think it's kind of reevaluating
their role and their purpose I see the
benefits of the royal family and like
the money that they bring into the
economy but I think that as you said if
it was a politician he'd be long gone
and I think that he needs to take proper
responsibility for what he's done so fit
at the deezee
this is the light on whether I mean
there was talk at one point about Prince
Charles slimming down the monarchy do
you think it's this this tells us
something about where we should where we
should go forward with the monarchy well
I mean I think with regard to Prince
Andrew there's nobody above the law and
I'm I'm not convinced that just going oh
I'll step back it is enough I think he
should be involved I think he should be
giving evidence I'm not I'm not able to
just squirrel off and hide from it
but I do think I mean people have a huge
affection and admiration for the Queen
people understand what she went through
when her uncle abdicated and you know
why she will never abdicate but there
are you know cascades of royals where
people feel well you know just exactly
what do be contribute in comparison to
their own swarming around I mean I think
people like Andrew that you know all the
kind of echelons of Royals where
obviously the direct lines yeah you know
I mean it you know look at your own
family tree it just gets bigger and
bigger and bigger and what we see all of
our taxes pay for that whereas it's
actually the Queen herself it's the core
of the family that visitors come to see
the whole changing of the guard the pomp
and circumstance they're not
particularly even aware of you know a
cousin two times removed but you know
they're all clinging on to that and I
think that there definitely is a case to
be slimming down the royal family okay
there's a man at the back with this or
men in the middle here yes but you
handle it yeah I think it's an absolute
trial by media what's happening with
Prince Andrew I think it should be left
to the relevant law authorities to be
able to take a decision on that and I
think this happens very much so with a
lot of the royal family that they just
get put through the trial on media and
everybody has an opinion on it I don't
think it's generally fair so you think
he's been treated unfairly it's terrible
what's happened to the victims and of
course do you feel for them I think that
the way that it's been portrayed by the
media and it's been an inquest by the
media is totally unfair there's two
women in the front here with the hands
up let's get the microphones
to you yes the woman the purple that
will come to you next Prince Andrew
isn't a minor royal he's the Queen's
second son and at one time was actually
second in line to the throne
I think his injury I didn't see the
whole of it but he spoke of a
straightforward shooting weekend now I
don't know how many people here have
ever been to a straightforward or less
than straightforward shooting weekend
but I think it was an indication of the
separation from the royal of the royal
family from the rest of society and I
think I think he was badly advised to do
the interview in the first place I think
it was believed by himself presumably in
the rest of the household that it would
clear the air and of course if you're in
a hole you stop digging yeah yeah well
it's the fact that each lie to cover up
what he'd done in not only it most
disappointing thing is actually you're
saying yes really no he lied we proven
that he's lied about being a Pete's
awesome walking there's proof that he
didn't know no that no no no that that
hasn't been proven I'm sorry yeah I know
he's but it's disappointing that not
only he liked the Queen but his queen is
his mother
and that is more hang on hang on I don't
there's no proof that he's lying about
anything at this stage so let's be
careful what we say he's having a bad
enough time as it is but let's not it's
not allegations actually we can't we've
gotta justify you talk about
straightforward shooting party used to
be a corporate lawyer you could've been
to one of those of you wasn't invited on
one of those unfortunately look rather
like the lady who asked the question on
balance for all its flaws I think that
the monarchy is a good thing for this
country I support it
I think the Queen is someone who were
incredibly lucky to have as our head of
state I have personally huge amount
actually Verisign for that you know in
her in herald age she's having to see
something like this happen
Prince Andrew well it seems like he's
made the right decision doesn't it - you
should actually just retire now
well I think that's what he's that's
what he's agreed to do hasn't he's
agreed to step back we don't know I mean
I I don't like you I don't know the full
facts of this I do know that from what
I've heard Jeffrey Epstein is a
thoroughly or was a thoroughly
unpleasant man who perpetrated
despicable crimes on women and children
and it does make me think that rather
like with a Harvey Weinstein case there
are some people for whether for its if I
don't know for their supposed glamour or
celebrity or wealth some people are
willing to turn a blind eye to that and
even facilitate the actions that they're
doing and I think if I had either
through stupidity or naivety or
temporary moral failure associated
myself with someone like Jeffrey Epstein
I would feel thoroughly ashamed of
myself I want to apologize to the
victims and I think that's probably
where Prince Andrew and others who were
friends of Jeffrey Epstein are right now
or should be so we know that Prince
Andres is stepping back from public due
to the time being he is he's still on
the civil list as far as we know do you
think you should be taken off it yes I
think that he should be stripped of his
taxpayer funding as well the public
doesn't and I think I watched that
interview I thought it wasn't so much a
car crash as a train wreck crashing into
a nuclear power plant I thought it was
absolutely ghastly to watch that
interview just the Bill Clinton ask the
legalese that he could not recall
meeting and this woman and the sort of
blue blooded insouciance but he had let
the side down as if he had
underperformed at his polo match also it
was just a complete disconnect with the
seriousness of the situation and how he
was come across and I think that
the crisis around Prince Andrew it hits
on a larger problem which we have with
the next generation of worlds because I
think that the monarchy is having an
existential crisis at the moment with
the Queen at 92 and you know the
monarchy is supposed to represent the
best aspects of our nation's or the best
characteristics so honesty morality hard
work principles but it's starting to be
more closely associated with deceit and
immorality and idleness and hypocrisy
what are you saying that the monarchy as
a whole no I'm saying with the next
generation with principles with Prince
Andrew I think that it kind of it
damages you know damages Oberon there's
a brand of the of the royal family
rather than whole um but I think that
there is a problem when the monarchy
gets wrapped up in sort of a glamour of
the global elite because there's a dark
side to that lifestyle you know there's
the murky immorality and there's also
the condescending hypocrisy as well it's
a completely other end of the scale but
when you have you know younger minor
Royals who are you're taking private
jets to places but also lecturing people
on climate change it rubs people off the
wrong way I think that you need to slim
down monarchy I mean you'd focus and you
need the monarchy should be a national
symbol all that's great about Britain
I'm not the opposite Richard when I
watched extracts from the interview with
their Prince Andrew when I consider this
matter the first thing that comes to my
mind actually isn't about the
institution of the monarchy its pros and
it's cons the first thing that comes to
my mind was the complete lack of empathy
shown in that interview for the victims
and survivors of rape and sexual abuse
in the Epstein house
it makes me think of other power
structures in our society it makes me
think of the sexism that's pervasive in
our society seeing women as objects
seeing women as as not people but
something to have something done to and
the and the instances of super rich
super powerful people with no empathy
treating people as if their commodity is
not other human beings as to whether
Prince Andrew has further questions to
answer you should of course cooperate
fully with any criminal investigation I
can't predetermine that I'm particularly
mindful of that a shadow Secretary of
State's for just as bad that we need a
complete look at how the criminal
justice system handles the matter of
rape rape convictions in our country a
historic low and that's why I announced
that we wouldn't if we're in government
an independent reviewing to how the
kamon justice system handles rape I
think the whole of society needs to look
at itself but the thing that brings us
all together and the only thing that can
help make our society better combat
sexism combat racism combat the fact
that people live on the streets is
actually empathy for each other thinking
about stepping into other people's shoes
and I have to say hand on heart when I
saw extracts from that interview that I
think you seem to be complete absence of
thinking what was that life like what
was that experience like for those women
who were victims
[Applause]
[Music]